## Structural bioinformatic study of six human olfactory receptors and their AlphaFold3 predicted water-soluble QTY variants and OR1A2 with an odorant octanoate

The molecular mechanism of olfaction, namely, how we smell with limited olfactory receptors to recognize seemingly unlimited scents still remain unknown despite the recent advance in chemistry, chemical, structural and molecular biology. Olfactory receptors are notoriously difficult to study because they are fully embedded in the cell membrane.  After decades of efforts and significant funding, there are only three olfactory receptor structures known. In order to understand olfaction, we carried out the structural bioinformatic study of six human olfactory receptors including OR51E1, OR51E2, OR52cs, OR1A1, OR1A2, TAAR9, and their AlphaFold3 predicted water-soluble QTY variants with odorants. We applied the QTY code to replace leucine (L) with glutamine (Q), isoleucine (I) and valine (V) with threonine (T), and phenylalanine (F) with tyrosine (Y) only in the transmembrane helices. Therefore, these QTY variants become water-soluble. We also present the superimposed structures of native olfactory receptors and their water-soluble QTY variants. The superimposed structures show remarkable similarity with RMSDs between 0.441Å and 1.275Å despite significant changes to the protein sequence of the transmembrane domains (43.03–50.31%).  We also show the differences of hydrophobicity surfaces between the native olfactory receptors and their QTY variants.  Furthermore, we also used AlphaFold3 and molecular dynamics to study the odorant octanoate with OR1A2 and water-soluble variant OR1A2QTY.  Our bioinformatics studies provide insight into the differences between the hydrophobic helices and hydrophilic helices, and will likely further stimulate designs of water-soluble integral transmembrane proteins and other aggregated proteins. 
